instagram trends to try this year
instagram was the most downloaded app in
the last quarter of 2021 according to
sensor tower and yes it has become a
little harder for you to get as much
free attention on the platform as you
could in the previous years like 2020 or
even 2019
but it's becoming one of those platforms
that you can't ignore whether you own a
business or you're just doing freelance
work
about six in ten instagram users are
visiting it every day literally every
day that means there's plenty of
attention that you can capitalize on not
only that 90 of instagram users follow a
brand and 70 of shoppers look to
instagram for their next purchase so
let's go over a few trends that you need
to watch for if you want to do well in
this platform trend number one instagram
reels will continually attract lots of
attention instagram's algorithm still
favors reels a lot and one of the
reasons for that is that tick tock has
been growing pretty rapidly aggressively
over the last few months and years so
instagram needs to compete in the space
reels have a front and center spot in
the app's navigation and it's become a
cornerstone in the instagram experience
heck even youtube is getting into the
game with shorts so you can expect this
trend to continually grow trend number
two instagram shopping according to a
report by emarketer social commerce is
expected to be worth 80 billion in 2025.
another study by instagram found that
many gen z users expect to shop through
their feeds so if you still don't have
instagram shopping enabled yet it's time
for you to revisit that decision and
leverage that platform heck i bought
shoes on instagram i bought pants on
instagram the shorts i'm wearing right
now but you don't see it because the
video rear camera only records me waist
up
i found on instagram the sandals that
i'm wearing right now down on instagram
trend number three as a small creator
you can start getting organic traffic
from your website from instagram
not that long ago all the accounts with
10 000 or more followers could add links
to their ig stories but now instagram
has made it where users can add links to
their stories which open up
opportunities for smaller brands to
drive traffic from instagram in other
words you don't need 10 000 followers
anymore
you need a focus though on how you're
going to draw the audience intention to
whatever it is that you have on your
website and you like them to consume so
you should treat this opportunity the
same way you go about writing copy for
your ads the introductions to your blog
post and things that you want people to
feel compelled to consume
trend number four live content is still
worth doing eighty percent of audiences
would rather watch a live stream than
read a post so if you're focusing a lot
on your time on writing blog content you
should try to start doing live streams
as there are a lot of people who like
consuming content through this channel
take away instagram is one of the most
important brands under the meta umbrella
and they'll continue to push it to
become as popular or more popular than
competing platforms like tick tock if
you want to do well on instagram follow
the trends i'm mentioning in this video